---
layout: post
category : work
tagline: "JSON"
tags : [bellevue, microsoft, vr, amazon ]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### CSS Tables

I don't enjoy writing CSS in general, but I encountered an interesting challenge at work. Without going into detail, I needed to build a mobile responsive group of elements. My original solution used Twitter Bootstrap's row divs to layout my elements. Eventually, I realized that my data was better displayed as a table.


After I refactored my elements into a table, I encountered another problem. As I resized the window, the elements would wrap and create an extra row of elements. My first row would be split into two rows, which was not what I wanted. I spent a bunch of time searching Bing (maybe it was on an "alternative search engine") for a solution. I ended up going with property I had never heard of: white-space. I used the table row selector `tr` and applied `white-space: nowrap;`. This solution stopped my rows from wrapping. Neat!


### Solution


Ultimately, I had to change my approach. My goal was to show the entire table and allow the user to zoom in as desired. The `tr{white-space: nowrap;}` solution clipped the end of the table from the screen and required scrolling to view. This is not a great user experience. I decided to scale each element using vw units (which is new in CSS3). What is a vw unit? 1 unit represents 1/100th of the viewport width. This unit is great for mobile responsive design because the width changes with the size of the viewport. Yay!


A quick note: a viewport is what a user can see on the screen. The viewport size varies depending on the user's device. The viewport will be smaller on a mobile phone versus a computer.


### My First VR Experience


I had extra time before an Amazon event, so I went to test out the Vive setup at the Microsoft store. I have used Google Cardboard before, but I do not consider it a full VR experience. My expectations were pretty high, but I was still impressed by how novel the experiences were. The store uses [The Lab](http://store.steampowered.com/app/450390/) to demo VR experiences. The first demo helps you visualize the amount of physical space you can use. It also helps you get familiar with the controllers. 

#### Vesper Peak

The second demo called Vesper Peak is a mountain landscape. You can skip to different locations using the controller and look around in all directions. At the edge of the cliff, I felt my legs wobble a little. This was the weakest demo I tried. There is nothing to show where your legs are and that took me out of the experience a bit. The resolution did not seem great, which was exacerbated by the stationary nature of the demo. I would also sometimes move my eyes to the edge of the Vive's lenses instead of moving my head, which also took me out of the experience.

#### Tilt Brush

Tilt Brush was my favorite demo. [Tilt Brush](https://www.tiltbrush.com/) is a 3D painting program by Google. I've spent many years designing things in 3D using traditional software such as Pro-Engineer, SolidWorks, and SketchUp. One weakness that these programs share is user interface. It is not a pleasant user experience. Tilt Brush, on the other hand, is incredibly intuitive. I was drawing the moment the program started up. It's really cool to be able to walk around and through your drawings. The resolution did not distract me in this context.

### Amazon Event



---
